The final round of judging will be done by an online viewer vote conducted on www.CNNHeroes.com. Viewers will have the chance to vote in an online poll for the Finalist whose accomplishment, impact and story best exemplifies a CNN Hero. Voting for the CNN Hero of the Year begins October 29, 2021 (8:30 a.m. ET) and continues until Tuesday, December 7, 2021 (11:59 pm PT). Subject to the CNN Heroes Legal Disclosures and the terms herein, the Finalist from the top 10 CNN Heroes who collects the most votes will be the winner (the "Winner"). The Winner will be announced at the Awards Ceremony.  Eligible votes must be submitted using a verifiable email or Facebook account. Limit of 10 votes per day, per method. Votes exceeding the limit will not be counted.  Please note that even if a Finalist may appear to be a leader or Winner online during the online voting, that individual has not yet been declared a Winner. CNN shall declare all official Winners. All Finalists are subject to verification by CNN and must meet all eligibility requirements including the execution and return of all necessary releases, or they may be disqualified. The decisions of the Judges will be final and binding. Whether a nominator is identified and which nominator is identified, if there are multiple nominations for one individual, is in the sole discretion of CNN.  CNN reserves the right in its sole discretion to disqualify any Finalist and/or void the votes of any individual who directly or indirectly tampers with the voting process and to cancel, terminate, modify or suspend the Awards Program. Votes generated by script, macro or other automated means will be void. Sponsors assume no responsibility for any error, omissions, interruption, deletion, defect or delay in operation with transmission, communications, line failure, theft or destruction or unauthorized access to or allegation of submissions. Sponsors are not responsible for any problem or technical malfunction of any telephone network or lines, computer online systems, servers, equipment or software, failure of any vote to be received on account of technical problems or traffic congestion on the Internet or at any website, phone lines, or any combination thereof, including any injury or damage to a participant's computer related to or resulting from participation in this Awards Program. Sponsor is not responsible for votes not received due to an individual's account settings, spelling, or other end user error. CAUTION: ANY ATTEMPT BY A PARTICIPANT OR USER TO DELIBERATELY DAMAGE ANY WEBSITE OR UNDERMINE THE LEGITIMATE OPERATION OF THE AWARDS PROGRAM IS A VIOLATION OF CRIMINAL AND CIVIL LAWS AND SHOULD SUCH AN ATTEMPT BE MADE, SPONSORS RESERVES THE RIGHT TO SEEK DAMAGES TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW. In the event of sabotage, acts of God, terrorism or threats thereof, computer virus or other events or causes beyond the Sponsor's control, which corrupt the integrity, administration, security or proper operation of the voting process, Sponsor reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to disqualify entrants and/or modify, cancel or suspend the Awards Program. In the event of cancellation, Sponsor reserves the right to award prizes from among all eligible, non-suspect entries received prior to the event requiring such cancellation. False or deceptive votes and/or acts will render the respective Finalist ineligible.  For additional information and details please see the full Legal Disclosures at https://www.cnn.com/2020/12/10/world/cnn-heroes-legal-disclosures-2021/index.html   